<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_lrd_r1l_nfb">
    <title>My DITA learnings</title>
    <shortdesc>Introduction to using DITA for documentation projects and the benefits of a documentation culture.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Key points</title>
            <p>This page captures some of my DITA learnings in the hopes of helping others use
                DITA.</p>
        </section>
        <p>DITA is a framework that helps writers contribute to a specific writing project even if
            the writers are spread across different geographies, have different writing styles and
            are unfamiliar in using appropriate information types, among other things. </p>
        <p>By using DITA, you can enforce a standard topic layout, elements that conform to that
            topic and so on. For example, writers who need to explain a concept, can choose to use a
            conceptual dita topic that allows them to introduce only writing elements suitable for
            that topic. You can customize the DITA templates to provide such restrictions. </p>

        <p>In today's world of open source development tools and infrastructure, many organizations
            are moving away from using DITA for their inhouse documentation needs. Product companies
            are trying to foster a documentation culture within their development teams. This can
            help companies bridge knowledge gaps between teams, eliminate information silos, and
            increase new engineers' productivity. </p>
        <p>To motivate engineers create documentation as part of their development process, teams
            support tools such as markdown or a wiki implementation. However, implementing Wiki
            comes with its own set of drawbacks.</p>
        <section id="section_best_practices">
            <title>DITA Best Practices</title>
            <p>To get the most out of DITA, consider following these industry best practices:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><b>Topic-Based Authoring:</b> Ensure you are using the correct information types
                    (Concept, Task, Reference). Concepts explain "what," Tasks explain "how," and
                    References provide lookup data.</li>
                <li><b>Content Re-use (DRY):</b> Use <codeph>conref</codeph> to share content
                    between topics. This prevents duplication and ensures that updates to common
                    notes or warnings only need to be made in one place.</li>
                <li><b>Semantic Inline Elements:</b> Instead of generic styling, use semantic tags
                    like <codeph>&lt;uicontrol&gt;</codeph> for UI elements,
                        <codeph>&lt;filepath&gt;</codeph> for file paths, and
                        <codeph>&lt;userinput&gt;</codeph> for terminal commands.</li>
                <li><b>Metadata and Prolog:</b> Use the <codeph>&lt;prolog&gt;</codeph> section to
                    add keywords and metadata. This significantly improves the accuracy of the
                    built-in search engines in WebHelp and other outputs.</li>
                <li><b>Relationship Tables (RelTables):</b> Manage links in the DITA Map using
                    relationship tables rather than hardcoding cross-references. This makes your
                    content more modular and prevents broken links if topics are moved or
                    removed.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
